# Overall Course Assessment

The purpose of this repository is to give you feedback on your overall grade in
Computer Science 203, Software Engineering. With the exception of the template
for requesting the use of a token, there are no files inside of this repository
and you do not need to add any files to this repository.

The course instructor will us this repository to submit overall course
assessment reports to either the issue tracker or the pull requests tracker in
this repository. Students who have questions about their any aspects of their
course assessments are encouraged to schedule a meeting with the instructor
during [office hours](https://www.gregorykapfhammer.com/schedule/).

As explained on the [course web site](https://developerdevelopment.com/), the
grade that a student receives in this class will be based on the following
categories. All of these percentages are approximate and, if the need to do so
presents itself, the course instructor may change the assigned percentages
during the academic semester.

- **Team Participation**: 5%
- **Executive Summaries**:
  - **Professional Development**: 10%
  - **Technical Development**: 10%
- **Software Engineering Evaluations**:
  - **In-Person Assessments**: 10%
  - **Programming Skill-Checks**: 10%
  - **Midterm Examinations**: 10%
  - **Final Examination**: 15%
- **Project Development**: 30%

These assessment categories have the following definitions:

- **Team Participation**: Students are expected to regularly attend and
actively participate in all class and project development sessions. After
either an unexcused absence or a late attendance to either a class or project
development session on two separate occasions, a student's overall team
participation grade will be reduced by half a percentage for each additional
time they are absent or late in an unexcused fashion. Students who need to miss
class or attend class late for an excused reason should communicate their
situation to the instructor in a timely fashion. After one warning per week, a
student's weekly team participation grade will be reduced if they are observed
undertaking non-course-related activities like viewing email, social media, or
other content not connected to the software engineering course.

- **Midterm Examinations**: The two midterm examinations are online cumulative
assessments, taken during the laboratory session, that cover all prior
technical material from the course sessions, as outlined on the course
schedule. Unless prior arrangements are made with the instructor, all students
should use their computer to take these tests on the scheduled date and to
complete it in the stated location while taking no more than the required
amount of time. Each midterm is an executable examination that students will
complete through the use of GitHub, VS Code, and the Python programming tools
installed on their laptops.

- **Final Examination**: The final examination is an online cumulative
assessment, taken during the final examination session, that covers all of the
material during all of the course sessions, as outlined on the course schedule.
Unless prior arrangements are made with the course instructor, all students
should use their computer to take the final examination on the scheduled date
and to complete it in the stated location while taking no more than the
required amount of time. The cumulative final is an executable examination that
students complete through the use of GitHub, VS Code, and the Python
programming tools installed on their laptops.

- **Programming Skill-Checks**: The programming skill-checks are in-class
online cumulative assessments covering all prior technical material from the
course sessions, as outlined on the course schedule. Unless prior arrangements
are made with the instructor, all students should use their computer to take
these skill-checks on the scheduled date and to complete it in the stated
location while taking no more than the required amount of time. Designed to
prepare learners for an examination, each skill-check is an in-class executable
assessment that students complete through the use of GitHub, VS Code, and the
Python programming tools on their laptops.

- **In-Person Assessments**: The three in-person assessments are cumulative
evaluations of both technical and professional knowledge conducted through an
in-person conversation with the course instructor. All students should be
prepared to answer at least one question each about their attainment of
professional and technical skills and the source code and documentation of the
software project(s). The instructor will assess each student response on a
checkmark basis.

- **Professional Development**: Graded on a checkmark basis and building on
material in the [Software Engineering at
Google](https://abseil.io/resources/swe-book) textbook (i.e., **SE**) and the
content covered during that week's in-person classroom sessions, the
professional development tasks, namely the publication of a team-based
executive summary, both have the following goals: (i) help a learner to
demonstrate that they can remember the learned material by recalling facts,
basic concepts, and answers to questions presented in **SE** and (ii) allow a
learner to demonstrate an understanding of facts and ideas by translating,
interpreting, and contextualizing the main professional concepts found in
**SE**.

- **Technical Development**: Graded on a checkmark basis and building on
material in the [Fuzzing Book](https://www.fuzzingbook.org/) (i.e., **FB**) and
[Debugging Book](https://www.debuggingbook.org/) textbooks (i.e., **DB**) and
the content covered during that week's in-person classroom sessions, the
technical development tasks, namely the publication of a team-based executive
summary, have the following goals: (i) help a learner to show that they can
remember the learned material by recalling facts, basic concepts, and answers
to questions presented in **FB**/**DB** and (ii) allow a learner to demonstrate
an understanding of facts and ideas by interpreting and implementing the main
technical ideas presented in either **FB** or **DB**.

- **Project Development**: These team-based projects invite students to explore
different techniques for specifying, designing, implementing, testing,
documenting, deploying, and maintaining real-world, open-source Python-based
software tools. These projects also encourage students to use and build
software engineering tools to complete tasks like debugging and testing. The
technical work that a student completes during project development will take
place in a public GitHub repository and will be further documented and
reflected on in a private GitHub repository that the instructor will use to
furnish assessments and feedback to the student. Finally, the professional work
that a student undertakes as part of project development will occur in both an
in-person setting and through a public GitHub repository, with the use of a
private GitHub repository offering the opportunity for the student to document
and reflect on their contributions and for the instructor to offer detailed
feedback and assessments.
